Semiconductors -> Transistors -> Logic Gates -> ICs -> Microprocessors -> FPGAs -> LUTs

Section 1 Notes:

	Semiconductor:	A material with a conductivity (ability to conduct electricity) between a conductor and and insulator. A semiconductor
	Material	usually consists of a regular crystal lattice structure that has been doped (a process of adding impurities to the lattice)
			in order to facilitate the flow of electrons. 

			Semicondctors can be lightly or heavily doped, referring to the amount of impurites (dopant atoms) per the amount of
			semiconductor material atoms. Semconductors can be p or n-doped:

				p-type:	The lattice contains free holes in which electrons can fill
				n-type:	The lattice contains free electrons instead of holes

			In semiconductor devices, which can contain many layers of p and n-type materials, p-n junctions (boundaries between 
			p-type and n-type materials) are responsible for the useful behavior of many semiconductor devices, such as the 
			transistor.

	Transistors:	A semiconductor device that can control the current or voltage flow in a circuit. They can also take a low amplitude
			current and amplify it into a larger output. Transistors are usually used as switches with two states, on or off.
			Transistor can be combined to create logic gates, and can be further combined into huge arrays called integrated
			circuits (via miniaturization), which form the foundation of modern technology.

			Frequency of a transistor refers to the amount of times a transistor can switch state per unit time. Modern transistors
			can be measured in gigahertz (billions of switches per second)

			Structure:

			Transistors are usually made of silicon material and consist of three layers, the base, the emitter, and the collector.
			They can be either NPN or PNP:

				PNP:	n-type semiconductor layer between to p-type layers
				NPN:	p-type layer between two n-type layers

			The inner layer is referred to as the control electrode, as a small change in current or voltage at that layer causes
			a large change throughout the device.

				Emitter:	Heavily doped, emits electrons (supplies electrons to other layers)
				Base:		Lightly doped, creates junctions in the transistor, passes carriers from emitter to collector
				Collector:	Moderately doped, collects carriers from the emitter

			Both PNP and NPN transistors have EBC's, however opposite flow.

			Types:

			The two main types of transistors are Bipolar Junction transistors (BJTs) and Field Effect transistors (FETs). 

			BJTs can be either PNP or NPN type. current can flow through BJTs due to electrons and holes. PNP BJTs conduct electricity
			through holes, while NPN BJTs do so through electron flow.

			FETs also have three layers, the source, drain, and gate, analagous to the emitter, base, and collector, but the p-type and
			n-type layers are different. FETs in while layers are coated with metal and oxide layer are called MOSFETs. They conduct the
			flow of electricty through changes in field.

			Other types of transitors are:	Junction Field Effect Transistors (JFETs), Thin Film Transistors (TFTs), Schottkey, diffusion.

	Logic Gates:	Transistors can be combined together to create what are known as logic gates. Most logic gates take to inputs (except NOT)
			and compare them to create a single output, using Boolean algebra. There are seven basic logic gates:

				AND:	If both inputs are T, then output is T, otherwise F
				OR:	If either input is T, then output is T, otherwise F
				XOR:	If exactly one input is T, then output is T 
				NOT:	Inverts the current input
				NAND:	NOT + AND
				NOR:	NOT + OR
				XNOR:	NOT + XOR

	Integrated:	Integrated circuits are huge arrays of semiconductor devices (transistors, resistors, capacitors, etc) all combined onto a
	Circuits	single semiconductor surface. Each device is made up materials (semiconductor wafers, copper, etc) that all combine into 
			what is called a die.

			IC packages (which contain the microscopic dies) are connected to external circuits through pins (gold wire connectors)
			The pins on a package are polarized, meaning they start from a certain point (indicated usually by a dot) and then count
			up counter-clockwise from the first pin. Packages can either be through hole (larger with larger pins, PTH) or surface mount
			(meant to be soldered directly to the board), referred to as SMDs. Dual in-line packages (DIP) are ICs with two parallel
			rows of pins

			Printed circuit boards (PCBs) are custom boards designed to have surface mounted ICs soldered directly to them.

			Types of SMDs:

				Small-outline (SOP):	Analagous to the DIP, smaller with the pins facing outward rather than downward.
				Quad Flat Package:	Pins outwards on all sides of a square package
				Quad Flat No Lead:	Tiny contacts on the bottom edges of the package instead of pins, smalles
				-> (QFN)
				Ball Grid Array (BGA):	Tiny balls of solder on the bottom of the package rather than pins or contacts

			Types of ICs:

				Logic Gates:	Built from a small amount of transistors, smallest unit of an IC, sometimes its own IC
				Timers:		Basic logic circuitry, can be made from a relatively small amount of logic gates
				-> Counters
				-> Shift Registers
				-> Latches
				
				Microcontrollers, Microprocessors, FPGAs, etc:
					
					Large ICs, containing millions and billions of transistors. Between 8-100 pins and 1000s of pins for
					FPGAs and other very complex microprocessors.

					Microprocessor consist of a small computer contained within an IC, whereas although a microcontroller
					is also a small computer, it is optimized for controlling a small electronic component.

				Sensors:	Small ICs that can be used to measure temperature, speed, rotation, alcohol etc.

	Microprocessor:	An integrated circuit that can load and execute program instructions (based on a certain instruction set architecture)

			Structure:

				Arithemetic Logic Unit (ALU):	Performs addition, subtraction, and basic logic operations. Operations happen
								sequentially, and each operations generates a flag (represented by a bit field)
								which indicates to the next operation the result of that operation.

								The operation flags are stored in a status register.

				Control Logic Section:		Responsible for retrieving instructions from memory and sending them to the ALU
								in the form of operations to be performed.

				Register:			Memory storage for the processor. The Control Logic Section retrieves data from
								larger stores of memory lower in the memory hierarchy, and loads it into the
								register.

			Microprocessors use words as a basic unit of data. When the control logic section retrieves data from memory, it does so
			by storing words into a register. Registers are measured by the size of their respective words (32-bit register, 64-bit, etc.)


	Field:		An integrated circuit that can be programmed (or configured) to behave like any other circuit. The hardware of an FPGA is 
	Programmable	directed by the programmer using a hardware description language (HDL). 
	Gate Arrays
	(FPGAs)		FPGAs can only be programmed to behave like digital circuits, which are circuits that only compute using 0s and 1s
			(represented by either a 0 V or a <upper bound> V signal). FPGAs represent these digital circuits using gigantic
			and complex arrays of logic gates.

			One of the most fundamental components of the FPGA is the multiplexer, a device that take in multiple inputs, and selects
			one of those inputs to become the output. Simple multiplexers select the output using something called one-hot encoding.

			A one-hot encoded array of binary numbers has only one 1. So, for example, if 5 in binary is 101, its one-hot encoding 
			is 00100000, this binary representation only has one 1. When multiplexers are chained together in large arrays, they can
			control the path a signal takes in a circuit, this is how FPGAs are able to represent many different kinds of circuits
			(Basic idea, extreme oversimplification).

	Lookup tables:	A predetermined set of inputs and outputs
	(LUTs)
